Souren Prakash
9/25/2024

From the first Sankey graph, we can see that the majority of artists in the world come from Western countries. It is difficult to say why this is; my own guess is that artists from these countries have an easier time breaking into the art world, which is mainly dominated by people from Western countries. There is no lack of art in Asia, the Middle East, or Africa, but becoming an established and globally recognized artist is quite difficult, often requiring connections. This trend is also evident in this example.
We can also see that during the 1900s, there was an explosion of artists compared to earlier periods. I would argue that this is a result of both globalization and world conflict. The word of artists would be able to travel faster and more seamlessly after the invention and popularization of fiber optic cables, which started to be laid in the US in the 1950s. The aftermath of WWI, WWII, the Cold War, and other global crises may have heavily increased the number of artists in the world, as many draw inspiration from tragedy. Interestingly, the United States dominates the number of artists it has contributed to the industry.
In the second graph, we can see that the majority of artists are male, with an extremely large concentration from the 1940s. The largest number of female artists are linked to the 1960s, while the smallest number are linked to the 1880s. I am not extremely knowledgeable about the art industry, but I can imagine that there is an element of patriarchy embedded within it. This could explain why there is such a vast difference in the number of male to female-artists; opportunities can be limited. Additionally, in many developing nations, many female artists may not have the opportunity to display their work in public settings.
The final graph shows two very interesting points. Female artists are primarily represented in the filtered range by Britain, Germany, and America. It is also notable that many female artists are typically linked to the late 1800s or early 1900s, while male artists make up a larger share in more recent years.
One thing I would love to add to this project is the creation of a filter to view artists below a certain threshold. I want to see the distribution of artists from countries located in the Middle East, Asia, and Africa.
